doc: adding graphql documentation (#783)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/04-api-reference/front-commerce-core/graphql.mdx

---
title: "graphql"
sidebar_position: 7
description:

>   "This documentation cover methods related to GraphQL exposed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "This documentation cover methods related to GraphQL-related APIs exposed by
```

Author: fixed with your suggestion

| `config`  | `Config`  | The application configuration |

## `makeErrorLoggerInterceptor`

Intercepts and log errors.

```ts
import { makeErrorLoggerInterceptor } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const errorLoggerInterceptor = makeErrorLoggerInterceptor({
  isMaintenance: (error) =>
    error.response &&
    (error.response.status === 503 ||
      (error.response.status === 500 &&
        /maintenance mode .* enabled/.test(error.response.data))),
  ignoreForbiddenErrors: ignoreForbiddenErrors,
});
```

Arguments:

| Argument                | Type       | Description                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isMaintenance`         | `function` | a function that recieve error as parameter and return a `boolean` to tell if website is in maintenance mode |
| `ignoreForbiddenErrors` | `boolean`  | a boolean to tell if forbidden errors                                                                       |
| should be ignored       |

> ## `limitRateByClientIp`

Reviewer: **issue:** removed in FC-1558

**suggestion:** remove this section

Author: removed

---
title: "graphql"
sidebar_position: 7
description:
  "This documentation cover methods related to GraphQL exposed by
  `@front-commerce/core`."
---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## `createGraphQLModule`

Create a GraphQL module and inject it into Front-Commerce's GraphQL server

```ts
import { createGraphQLModule } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

export default createGraphQLModule({
  namespace,
  modules,
});
```

Arguments:

- `namespace` (`string`): The namespace of the GraphQL module
- `modules` (`modules[]`): The modules to inject in namespace

_Example_

```ts
import { createGraphQLModule } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";
import AcmeModule from "./acmeModule";

export default createGraphQLModule({
  namespace: "Acme",
  modules: [AcmeModule],
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: **nit:** This example seems redundant with the other "example" just above.

**suggestion:** Remove the first one put the more complete example in its place instead.

## `readGraphQLModules`

> Read and parse GraphQLModules generated by codegen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reads and parses GraphQLModules generated by codegen.
```

> 
> _Example_
> 

Reviewer 2: **nit:** I think this is self-explanatory 😛 

**suggestion:** Remove this line.
```suggestion

```

```ts
import { readGraphQLModules } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const generatedSchemaModules = await readGraphQLModules();
```

## `schema`

> Reads the generated GraphQL schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reads the generated GraphQL schema.
```

```ts
import { schema } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const acmeSchema = await schema();
```

## `createEnvelop`

:::caution

This is an internal API to inject context into external modules. It may needs
some modification to fetch your usecase

See
[`@front-commerce/remix/playground/yoga.ts`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/main/packages/remix/playground/yoga.ts?ref_type=heads)
for usage example.

:::

> 

Reviewer 2: **thought:** Should we really document this? That seems like an easy way for integrators do break things.

**suggestion:** Document it further by providing use cases integrator may have.

**suggestion(alt):** Remove this section.

Author: removed

## `createGraphQLApi`

> Create a GraphQL method to execute GraphQL queries and mutations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creates a GraphQL method to executes GraphQL queries and mutations.
```

```ts
const api = createGraphQLApi(request, user, config);
```

Arguments:

- `request` (`Request`): The request object
- `user` (`User`): The user context
- `config` (`Config`): The application configuration

> 

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (transform into a table).

_Example_

```ts
import { createGraphQLApi } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";
import { AcmeQuery } from "~/graphql/graphql";

const AcmeGraphQLApi = createGraphQLApi(request, user, config);

const response = await AcmeGraphQLApi(AcmeQuery);

> ```

Reviewer 2: nit: This example seems redundant with the other "example" just above.

suggestion: Remove the first one put the more complete example in its place instead.

## `makeErrorLoggerInterceptor`

> Intercept and log errors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Intercepts and log errors:
```

```js
makeErrorLoggerInterceptor({
  isMaintenance: maintenance,
  ignoreForbiddenErrors: ignore,
});
```

Arguments:

- `maintenance` (`function`): a function that recieve error as parameter and
  return a `boolean` to tell if website is in maintenance mode
- `ignore` (`boolean`): a boolean to tell if forbidden errors should be ignored

> 

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (transform into a table).

_Example_

```ts
import { makeErrorLoggerInterceptor } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const errorLoggerInterceptor = makeErrorLoggerInterceptor({
  isMaintenance: (error) =>
    error.response &&
    (error.response.status === 503 ||
      (error.response.status === 500 &&
        /maintenance mode .* enabled/.test(error.response.data))),
  ignoreForbiddenErrors: ignoreForbiddenErrors,
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (replace the first example with it).

## `limitRateByClientIp`

> Limit a GraphQL mutation by client IP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Limits a GraphQL mutation by client IP.
```

> Limit a GraphQL mutation by client IP

Reviewer 2: **issue:** This doesn't really explain what it does, "limit" is a _very vague_ term that could be many things. Here it's specifically about **rate** limitation.

Author: added details

```ts
limitRateByClientIp(config, resolver);
```

Arguments:

- `config` (`object`): rate limiter configuration object:
  - `max` (`number`): number of calls allowed within window
  - `window` (`number`): window of maximum calls

> - `resolver` (`function`): GraphQL resolver

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (transform into a table).

_Example_

```ts title="extension/acme/graphql/modules/contact/resolver.ts"
import { limitRateByClientIp } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

export default {
  Mutation: {
    sendContactEmail: limitRateByClientIp(
      { max: 5, window: "1m" },
      (_, { template, data, storeEmail }, { loaders }) =>
        loaders.Contact.sendContactEmail(template, data, storeEmail)
    ),
  },
};

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (replace the first example with it).

## `reorderForIds`

> Reorder an array by ids

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reorders an array by id.
```

```ts
reorderForIds(ids, (key = "id"));
```

Arguments:

- `ids` (`string[]` default to `id`): ids to reorder

> - `key` (`string`): key to use to order

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (transform into a table).

> Arguments:
> 
> - `ids` (`string[]` default to `id`): ids to reorder
> - `key` (`string`): key to use to order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arguments:

- `ids` (`string[]` default to `id`): ids to reorder
- `key` (`string`): key used to order
```

_Example_

```ts
import { reorderForIds } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const orderer = reorderForIds([2, 3, 1], "id");
const reordered = orderer([{ id: 1 }, { id: 2 }, { id: 3 }]);

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (replace the first example with it).

## `reorderForIdsCaseInsensitive`

> Same as [`reorderForIds`](#) but case insensitive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Same as [`reorderForIds`](#) but case insensitive.
```

## `makeBatchLoaderFromSingleFetch`

> Convert a single fetch to a batch loader

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converts a single fetch to a batch loader.
```

> Convert a single fetch to a batch loader

Reviewer 2: **thought(non-blocking):** Not sure were it'll end up, but an explanation (_or a link to one_) about what's a batch loader could be great here. This can be done later though.

```ts
makeBatchLoaderFromSingleFetch(fetch, response);
```

Argumvents:

- `fetch` (`function`): fetch function

> - `response` (`object`): response transformer

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (transform into a table).

_Example_

```ts
import { makeBatchLoaderFromSingleFetch } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const axiosInstance = axios.create({
  baseURL: "https://acme.com/api",
});

const acmeLoader = makeBatchLoaderFromSingleFetch(
  (depth) => axiosInstance.get(`/prodcuts`),
  (response) => response.data.products
);

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (replace the first example with it).

## `maybeValue`

> Check if a value is defined, else print a debug message and return `null`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Checks if a value is defined, else prints a debug message and returns `null`.
```

**thought:** I'm not sure if we should be talking about debug prints, or if we do, I think we must also document to what debug "key" it is linked (here, `DEBUG=axios`).

```ts
maybeValue(value, message);
```

Arguments:

- `value` (`any`): value to check

> - `message` (`string`): debug message to print if value is not defined

Reviewer 2: **issue:** the variable [is called `noValueDebugMessage` in the code](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/main/packages/core/graphql/dataloaderHelpers.ts?ref_type=heads#L6). For better discoverability, it should also be the case in the documentation. It also helps greatly with the readability.

```suggestion
- `noValueDebugMessage` (`string`): debug message to print if value is not defined
```

> - `message` (`string`): debug message to print if value is not defined

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (transform into a table).

_note: I'll stop those comments, but this is applicable for all other agrument lists in this documentation below._

_Example_

```ts
import { maybeValue } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const acmeValue = maybeValue(5, "value is not defined");

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as above (replace the first example with it).

_note: I'll stop those comments, but this is applicable for all other examples in this documentation below._

## `promiseToMutationSuccess`

> Convert a promise to a mutation success object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converts a promise to a mutation success object.
```

**issue:** "mutation success object" is a Front-Commerce-specific internal name that might not mean anything to integrators.

**suggestion:** Reformulate this description into a more bit descriptive definition of "mutation success object".

```ts
promiseToMutationSucces(promise);
```

Arguments:

- `promise` (`Promise`): promise to execute

Returns

- `object`: mutation success
  - `success`: `boolean`
  - `data`: `any`

_Example_

```ts
import { promiseToMutationSuccesData } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const result = await promiseToMutationSuccesData(
  axios.get("https://acme.com/api/products")
);
```

## `promiseToMutationSuccessWithData`

> Convert a promise to a mutation success object with data transformer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converts a promise to a mutation success object with data transformer.
```

**issue:** Same issue as above ("mutation success object").

```ts
promiseToMutationSuccesWithData(promise, (transform = (v) => v));
```

Arguments:

- `promise` (`Promise`): promise to execute
- `transform` (`function`): transformation function

Returns

- `object`: mutation success
  - `success`: `boolean`
  - `data`: `any`

_Example_

```ts
import { promiseToMutationSuccesWithData } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const result = await promiseToMutationSuccesWithData(
  axios.get("https://acme.com/api/products"),
  (data) => ({
    id: product.id,
  })
);
```

## `withDefault404Result`

> Execute a promise and return a default result if the promise is rejected with a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Executes a promise and returns `defaultResult` if the promise is rejected with a
```

**note:** `Promise` are not "executed". A `Promise` object represent an asynchronous operation, by the time `withDefault404Result` is called, this operation might have already begun.

**suggestion:** Reword this description:

```suggestion
Resolves a promise with `defaultResult` if the promise is rejected with a
```

404 code.

:::tip

> This is mainly used for axios request that throw an object with property
> `response.status`. If you want to use it with a promise that isn't an axios
> promise, your promise reject object must include a `response.status` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is mainly used for `axios` requests that throw an object with a
`response.status` property. If you want to use it with a promise that does not come from an `axios`
request, your promise reject object must include a `response.status` property.
```

:::

```ts
withDefault404Result(promise, defaultResult);
```

Arguments:

> - `promise` (`Promise`): promise to execute

Reviewer 2: **issue:** "execute" isn't the right term here.

**suggestion:** (I lack the correct formulation, but I think that'll be better).
```suggestion
- `promise` (`Promise`): promise to evaluate
```

> - `defaultResult` (`any`): default result to return if the promise is rejected
>   with a 404 code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `defaultResult` (`any`): default value to resolve the promise to if it is rejected with a 404 code```

_Example_

```ts
import { withDefault404Result } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const result = await withDefault404Result(
  axios.get("https://acme.com/api/products"),
  []
);
```

## `RestPagesWalker`

> Make an HTTP request and walk trough all paginated results to retrieve all items

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieves all items from a paginated API.
```

```ts
RestPagesWalker =
  (axiosInstance,
  { url, defaultParams, pageParamName, pageSizeParamName, responseDataKey },
  formatItem);
```

Arguments:

- `axiosInstance` (`axios`): The axios instance to use

> - `url` (`string`): The url to request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `url` (`string`): The API's url
```

- `defaultParams` (`object`): The search params to use for request
- `pageParamName` (`string`): The name of the search param that contains the
  page
- `pageSizeParamName` (`string`): The name of the search param that contains the

>   page length

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  page size
```

- `responseDataKey` (`string`): The response key that contains data
- `formatItem` (`function`): The function to format each item

_Example_

```ts
import axios from "axios";
import { RestPagesWalker } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const axiosInstance = axios.create({
  baseURL: "https://acme.com/api",
});

const walker = RestPagesWalker(
  axiosInstance,
  {
    url: "/products",
    defaultParams: {
      color: "blue",
      size: "small",
    },
    pageParamName: "currentPage",
    pageSizeParamName: "pageSize",
    responseDataKey: "products",
  },
  (product) => product.id
);

const allData = await walker.walk();
```

## `makePolymorphicGraphQLTypeLoader`

> Create a GraphQL Type Loader that accept multiple type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creates a GraphQL Type Loader that accept multiple types.
```

**issue:** I'm not sure `GraphQL Type Loader` is a widely used term... I feel like this section would need a bit more explanation as to what it really means.

```ts
makePolymorphicGraphQLTypeLoader({
  name,
  defaultTypename,
});
```

Arguments:

- `name` (`string`): The name of the type
- `defaultTypename` (`string`): The default typename

_Example_

```ts
import { makePolymorphicGraphQLTypeLoader } from "@front-commerce/core/graphql";

const loader = makePolymorphicGraphQLTypeLoader({
  name: "AcmeProduct",
  defaultTypename: "NotFound",
});
```

## `makePriceValue`

> Convert a `number` to a `price_value` object

Reviewer 2: ⚠️**issue:** That is false.  This converts _three_ variables (`amount`, `currency` and `includeTax`) representing a "price" to an object [compatible with Front-Commerce's GraphQL type `Price`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/main/packages/core/graphql-core-schema/core/schema.gql?ref_type=heads#L70).

```js
makePriceValue = (
  amount: number,
  currency: string,
  includeTax?: boolean
)
```

Arguments:

> - `amount` (`number`): The amount to convert

Reviewer 2: **issue:** `amount` is not "converted" here. All three parameters are converted as a whole, the price is kept intact.

**suggestion:**
```suggestion
- `amount` (`number`): The price's amount.
```

> - `currency` (`string`): The currency to use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `currency` (`string`): The price's currency
```
